#Overview
Casterbridge Bank provides investment banking services out of London, England. Throughout the 1980’s, Casterbridge took advantage of lucrative market conditions to expand rapidly and profitably–most of which came through the hiring of new analysts. The hired analysts are typically fresh graduates from highly prestigious universities who are ready to meet the strenuous demands of investment banking. These analysts perform long, stressful hours of analysis, research, and support to MBA professional staff on client projects with a very high turnover rate, usually only lasting three years due to strain and stress of the position. Typically, client project demand peaks in the spring and fall, with less demanding break periods in the summer and winter months during which Casterbridge’s clients are vacationing. Casterbridge paid little mind to new analyst hiring costs during its rapid 1980’s growth, but as the investment banking market has cooled, Casterbridge has been forced to re-evaluate its internal human resources practices and supply management. Recently, Casterbridge hired William and Mary’s MSBA team 11 to work in conjunction with one of their prime management employees, Susan, to evaluate how the firm might optimize its hiring process.

#Problem Description
Casterbridge’s main issue lies in staffing: their current hiring process does not maximize the contribution to company earnings derived from hiring new analysts. Historically, Casterbridge utilized a hiring approach developed by one of its recently promoted employees, Tom Hardy. Tom’s approach averages annual client demand for analysts while considering Casterbridge’s average attrition and offer rejection rates. Tom’s approach uses this information to hire new analysts en masse in the spring. Currently, Casterbridge has found the seasonality of client demand and banker’s work ethic means many of their analysts are idling (expensively) in the office during the summer and the winter, but that they are understaffed and overworked throughout the stressful peak fall and spring months. This variability leads to a high attrition rate and impacts the firm’s potential profit. Additionally, Casterbridge’s management believe Tom’s model could be oversimplifying the staffing problem by neglecting to incorporate important external variables, such as English economic conditions, which heavily impact the financial service industry and client’s ability to demand new projects. Susan and Team 11 are working to develop a new hiring model that maximizes analyst contribution to Casterbridge earnings and meets customer demand by accounting for a broader range of environmental factors.

#Problem Resolution
Team 11 and Susan developed a hiring model optimizing analyst contribution to company earnings by considering seasonal variability, employee salary, economic conditions, a degree of randomness, and other factors on a monthly basis. Below, we describe Tom and Susan’s modeling approaches in greater detail and use R to simulate how each would impact Casterbridge fiscally. Ultimately, Susan’s flexible, December mixed hiring approach proves most profitable, with her optimal solution being to hire about ~67 analysts for an expected profit of ~$4,070,000. This method will optimize the distributions of Q in July and subject hiring in December to the changing variables including attrition rate, unexpected economic conditions and noise.
